---
layout: post
title:  "Catchup"
categories: blogging
---

As I mentioned, I switched the blog from WordPress to [statically generated files using Jekyll]({% post_url 2014-10-23-welcome-to-jekyll %}). I will admit that I've been reluctant to blog because it is a bit more hassle to publish a post. However, I also recently switched my band's web page from WordPress to Jekyll, and I've kind of gotten in the groove. Here's my list of pros and cons.

Pros
----
First of all: it's cheap. Of course, WordPress is free, but if you want to host your own WordPress blog, then you have to pay for storage and a machine. S3, for a low-traffic blog like this, is free! It's also fast. Pretty compelling.

Cons
----
First, it's a bit more work to write and publish a post. With WordPress, you just open a browser and start typing in the WYSIWYG editor. With Jekyll, on the other hand, you have to:

1. Create a new file using the naming convention
2. Write using markdown and the template language (e.g., for linking to other posts)
3. Generate the static html using Jekyll
4. Check the new html using browser
5. Commit markdown to git
6. Push the new/changed files to S3

So whereas with WordPress you could literally blog from any web browser, now you need a toolchain. What I realized then was: this is like software development! The process is the same:

1. Code: write post
2. Compile: generate HTML
3. Test: view in browser
4. Commit: commit to git
5. Deploy: push to S3

So basically I need to apply some software dev techniques here to make things smoother.